E102 – tartrazine
E122 – carmoisine
E129 – allura red
E104 – quinoline yellow
These colours have suspected links to hyperactivity in children and while they are still permitted under EU legislation, the FSA (Food Standards Agency) recommends that UK manufacturers no longer include them in their food products. Food and drink supplied to the EU which contain these additives, must include the following information:

 
" Name or E number of the colour(s)’: may have an adverse effect on activity and attention in children."

If you spot any food items (especially those aimed at children), which contain any of the above E numbers and do not show the warning, contact the Food Standards Agency.

E Numbers To Avoid
The following are still ones you may prefer to avoid:
E621 – monosodium glutamate
Otherwise known as MSG, Monosodium Glutamate, E621 is a flavour enhancer that’s commonly used to pep up food products and make them taste better. Unfortunately, it is known to cause problems for some people – and certain people seem to more sensitive to its effects than others. Amongst the known side effects, MSG can cause symptoms such as headaches, nausea, dizziness, muscle pain, palpitations and even pain.
E951 – aspartame
Aspartame, E951 is an artificial sweetener that’s commonly used as a sweetening ingredient. In particular, it’s often found in products aimed at dieters or diabetics, such as desserts, low-fat foods, low sugar drinks, snacks and sweets. It’s well known to be linked to problems in people who suffer from the condition PKU, and they are well advised to avoid it completely. But aspartame has become a concern to other people too and side effects, such as headaches, have often been reported.
E211 – sodium benzoate
E211, sodium benzoate, is an E number that’s used as a preservative and is found in products such as margarine, salad dressing, soy sauce, sweets and soft drinks. Studies have found that it’s linked to hyperactivity in children, plus it may cause reactions in people have allergic conditions or asthma.


E151 – black PN / brilliant black BN
Black PN, E151 is a form of black synthetic dye that is used as a food colouring in some products. However, concerns have been raised in other countries, as it’s been linked to allergic reactions in some people. It is already banned in Australia, Austria, America, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Belgium and France.


E133 – brilliant blue FCF
Brilliant blue, E133 is another synthetic blue colouring dye, which adds a blue colour to some products. Some people have been found to experience allergic reactions after consuming products containing E133 and this E number is already banned in Austria, Sweden, Switzerland, France, Germany and Norway.
E213 – calcium benzoate
Calcium Benzoate, E213 is a form of preservative that’s used to lengthen the shelf life of foods and drinks. It’s often found in low sugar products, but it has been linked to side effects in people who have allergic conditions.